add first part of chat (#1285)
telerik/maui-docs: controls/chat/styling/buttons.md

---
title: Buttons
page_title: .NET MAUI Chat Documentation - Buttons Styling
description: Learn how to style the buttons inside the Telerik UI for .NET MAUI Chat control.
position: 6
tags: .net maui, telerik .net maui, ui for .net maui, chat, style
slug: chat-buttons-styling
---

# .NET MAUI Chat Buttons Styling

This section describes how to style the send, more and speech to text buttons inside the `RadChat` control.

## Style the Send Button

> To customize the icon of the send button, use the `SendMessageButtonImage` (`ImageSource`) property.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To customize the icon of the **Send** button, use the `SendMessageButtonImage` (`ImageSource`) property.
```

The example below shows how to customize the Send button in your Chat control.

```XAML
<FontImageSource x:Key="SendIconSource"
                 FontFamily="Your font family name"
                 Glyph="icon code"
                 Color="Black"
                 Size="16" />
```

```XAML
 <telerik:RadChat x:Name="chat"
                  SendMessageButtonImage="{StaticResource SendIconSource}"/>
```

## Style the More Button

The More button provides additional options for the user, such as attaching files or accessing other functionalities.

> You can configure and style the More button using the following properties:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can configure and style the **More** button using the following properties:
```

> * `IsMoreButtonVisible` (`bool`) property controls the visibility of the more button. The default value is `false`.

Reviewer: Align the style and phrasing of the bullets. Right now they are harder to scan through and to grasp what's going on.

* `AutoGenerateMoreButtonActions `(`bool`)&mdash;Defines whether to automatically generate default actions for the 'More' button. The default value is `true`.

* Define the actions that will appear when the More button is tapped by adding instances of `ChatMoreButtonAction` to the `MoreButtonActions` (`IList<ChatMoreButtonAction>`) collection.

* Style the More button using the `MoreButtonStyle` (`Style` with target type `Telerik.Maui.Controls.Chat.ChatMoreButtonToolbarItemView`) property.

## Style the SpeechToTextButton

To configure the SpeechToTextButton, use the following properties:

* `IsSpeechToTextButtonVisible` (`bool`) property controls the visibility of the SpeechToTextButton. By default, the button is visible on Android, iOS and MacCatalyst and not visible on Windows.

> * `SpeechToTextButtonStyle` (`Style` with target type `Telerik.Maui.Controls.RadSpeechToTextButton`) property is used to style the SpeechToTextButton.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `SpeechToTextButtonStyle` (`Style` with target type `Telerik.Maui.Controls.RadSpeechToTextButton`)&mdash;Styles the SpeechToTextButton.
```
